---
layout: page
title: Books I've Read
permalink: "/books/"

---
This is a list of books I've read. It's not perfectly complete but it is close to exhaustive for everything since 2015, which is when I started properly tracking the books I read. Most of these books should link to a short review or notes I've written on the book, though I can't guarantee that all will.

This list is mostly non-fiction. Between 2012 and 2017 I read no fiction at all, though I've been slowly adding in more fiction (particularly science fiction and speculative fiction) since then. One result of this is that I don't have a very good lay of the land when it comes to fiction, so recommendations here are especially appreciated. I tend to prefer the kind of fiction writing that can't be captured well in other media, which usually means books with longwinded technical explanations of interesting things (e.g. Herman Melville, Neal Stephenson) or books where the interesting writing style is an integral part of the appeal (e.g. Irvine Welsh, Joseph Heller). If the only appeal is that the book tells a captivating story I'll generally prefer to receive that story in the form of a movie or a TV show.

This link is ranked by quality rather than chronology, meaning books I liked more are closer to the top. Drawing up this ranking from scratch would be hard, so this ranking is generated by a [program I wrote](https://github.com/AJSKirk/VElo) which chooses two books at random and asks me to pick the one I prefer. It then uses the [Elo algorithm](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Elo_rating_system) to turn this a series of binary head-to-head choices into a numeric score for each book, in the same way that rankings of Chess players{% sidenote side1 Or if you prefer, Mark Zuckerberg's website for ranking the attractiveness of female students as featured in _The Social Network_ %} are generated. I run this scoring system from time to time, so there will usually be a number of books in the 'Yet to be Ranked' section at the top of the list. It should go without saying that the fact that a book was ranked highly does not mean that I agree with it, let alone the rest of the author's body of work.

For the sake of clarity, the question I ask myself when ranking books is "which of these am I more glad to have read", not "which would I recommend to someone" or any variant of that. This is because it's hard to recommend a book in the general case, it's very much dependent on who is receiving the recommendation. As a result, there will almost certainly be books near the top of the list that you won't get any value out of, and books near the bottom of the list which would be an excellent choice for you. If you click through to the review/notes I have on a given book you'll usually see a sentence or two on who (if anyone) I would recommend it to.

### Yet to be Ranked

* [_The AI Does Not Hate You_, Tom Chivers](../books/the-ai-does-not-hate-you)

### Ranked

  1. _Utilitarianism_, John Stuart Mill
  2. _The Omnivore's Dilemma: The Search for a Perfect Meal in a Fast Food World_, Michael Pollan
  3. _The Origins of Political Order: From Prehuman Times to the French Revolution_, Francis Fukuyama
  4. _Command and Control: The Story of Nuclear Weapons and the Illusion of Safety_, Eric Schlosser
  5. _Gödel Escher Bach: An Eternal Golden Braid_, Douglas R. Hofstadter
  6. _The Quest: Energy Security and the Remaking of the Modern World_, Daniel Yergin
  7. _Thinking Fast and Slow_, Daniel Kahneman
  8. _A Man for all Markets_, Edward O. Thorp
  9. _On Politics: A History of Political Thought From Herodotus to the Present_, Alan Ryan
 10. _The Death and Life of Great American Cities_, Jane Jacobs
 11. _The Rise and Decline of Nations: Economic Growth Stagflation and Social Rigidities_, Mancur Olson
 12. _Poor Economics: A Radical Rethinking of the Way to Fight Global Poverty_, Abhijit Banerjee and Esther Duflo
 13. _The Fabric of Reality_, David Deutsch
 14. _Political Order and Political Decay: From The Industrial Revolution to the Globalization of Democracy_, Francis Fukuyama
 15. _Superforecasting: The Art and Science of Prediction_, Philip E. Tetlock and Dan Gardner
 16. _Superintelligence: Paths Dangers Strategies_, Nick Bostrom
 17. _Deep Work: Rules for Focused Success in a Distracted World_, Cal Newport
 18. _From Fatwa to Jihad: The Rushdie Affair and its Legacy_, Kenan Malik
 19. _The Logic of Collective Action: Public Goods and the Theory of Groups_, Mancur Olson
 20. _On Liberty_, John Stuart Mill
 21. _Catch-22_, Joseph Heller
 22. _Development as Freedom_, Amartya Sen
 23. _How Not To Be Wrong: The Power of Mathematical Thinking_, Jordan Ellenberg
 24. _Revolutionary Iran: A History of the Islamic Republic_, Michael Axworthy
 25. _The Classical World: An Epic History of Greece and Rome_, Robin Lane Fox
 26. _The Code Book: The Secret History of Codes and Code-Breaking_, Simon Singh
 27. _Iran: Empire of the Mind: A History from Zoroaster to the Present Day_, Michael Axworthy
 28. _Virtual Competition: The Promise and Perils of the Algorithm-Driven Economy_, Ariel Ezrachi and Maurice E. Stucke
 29. _The High Cost of Free Parking_, Donald Shoup
 30. _The Moral Law: Kant's Groundwork of the Metaphysics of Morals_, Immanuel Kant tr. Herbert James Paton
 31. _Rape: A History from 1860 to the Present_, Joanna Bourke
 32. _Imagined Communities: Reflections on the Origin and Spread of Nationalism_, Benedict Anderson
 33. _Crimes Against Humanity: The Struggle for Global Justice_, Geoffrey Robertson QC
 34. _The Emperor's New Mind: Concerning Computers Minds and the Laws of Physics_, Roger Penrose
 35. _The Bottom Billion: Why the Poorest Countries Are Failing and What Can Be Done About It_, Paul Collier
 36. _Trainspotting_, Irvine Welsh
 37. _The Better Angels of Our Nature: A History of Violence and Humanity_, Steven Pinker
 38. _Deep Sea and Foreign Going: Inside Shipping, the Invisible Industry that Brings You 90% of Everything_, Rose George
 39. _The Autobiography of Malcolm X_, Malcolm X and Alex Haley
 40. _The Black Jacobins: Toussaint L'Ouverture and the San Domingo Revolution_, C.L.R. James
 41. _A History of the Arab Peoples_, Albert Hourani
 42. _Algorithms to Live By: The Computer Science of Human Decisions_, Brian Christian and Tom Griffiths
 43. _The Fortunes of Africa: A 5000 Year History of Wealth, Greed, and Endeavour_, Martin Meredith
 44. _Causality: Models, Reasoning, and Inference_, Judea Pearl
 45. _Who Gets What - and Why: The Hidden World of Matchmaking and Market Design_, Alvin E. Roth
 46. _Snow Crash_, Neal Stephenson
 47. _Capitalism, Socialism, and Democracy_, Joseph Schumpeter
 48. _The Dispensable Nation: American Foreign Policy in Retreat_, Vali Nasr
 49. _The Looming Tower: Al-Qaeda's Road to 9/11_, Lawrence Wright
 50. _The Shia Revival: How Conflicts Within Islam Will Shape the Future_, Vali Nasr
 51. _History of Western Philosophy_, Bertrand Russell
 52. _The Twilight War: The Secret History of America's Thirty-Year Conflict With Iran_, David Crist
 53. _Guns Germs and Steel: A Short History of Everybody for the Last 13000 Years_, Jared Diamond
 54. _The State of Africa: A History of the Continent Since Independence_, Martin Meredith
 55. _The Attention Merchants: From the Daily Newspaper to Social Media How Our Time and Attention is Harvested and Sold_, Tim Wu
 56. _The Nature of Space and Time_, Stephen Hawking and Roger Penrose
 57. _Cryptonomicon_, Neal Stephenson
 58. _Quantum Computing Since Democritus_, Scott Aaronson
 59. _Neuromancer_, William Gibson
 60. _Nineteen Eighty-Four_, George Orwell
 61. _Seveneves_, Neal Stephenson
 62. _The Soul of a New Machine_, Tracy Kidder
 63. _Information Theory_, Robert B. Ash
 64. _The Pentagon's New Map: War and Peace in the Twenty-First Century_, Thomas P.M. Barnett
 65. _This Time is Different: Eight Centuries of Financial Folly_, Carmen Reinhart and Kenneth Rogoff
 66. _What Makes a Terrorist: Economics and the Roots of Terror_, Alan Krueger
 67. _Preemption: A Knife that Cuts Both Ways_, Alan Dershowitz
 68. _Anathem_, Neal Stephenson
 69. _Nudge: Improving Decisions About Health Wealth and Happiness_, Richard Thaler and Cass Sunstein
 70. _The Enlightened Economy: Britain and the Industrial Revolution_, 1700-1850 Joel Mokyr
 71. _Beyond Belief: The Catholic Church and the Child Abuse Scanda_,l David Yallop
 72. _The Calculus of Consent: Logical Foundations of Constitutional Democracy_, James Buchanan and Gordon Tullock
 73. _The Invisible Man_, H.G. Wells
 74. _War of the Worlds_, H.G. Wells
 75. _Zealot: The Life and Times of Jesus of Nazareth_, Reza Aslan
 76. _Moby-Dick_; or, _The Whale_, Herman Melville
 77. _The Embarrassed Colonialist_, Sean Dorney
 78. _Prisoner's Dilemma: John von Neumann, Game Theory, and the Puzzle of the Bomb_, Poundstone
 79. _Mona Lisa Overdrive_, William Gibson
 80. _Notes from Underground_, Fyodor Dostoyevsky
 81. _Days of Rage: America's Radical Underground the FBI and the Forgotten Age of Revolutionary Violence_, Bryan Burrough
 82. _Buddha_, Karen Armstrong
 83. _Innovative State: How New Technologies can Transform Government_, Aneesh Chopra
 84. _Body Count: Fixing the Blame for the Global AIDS Catastrophe_, Peter Gill
 85. _@War: The Rise of Cyber Warfare_, Shane Harris
 86. _Midnight's Descendants: South Asia from Partition to the Present Day_, John Keay
 87. _The Language Instinct: How the Mind Creates Language_, Steven Pinker
 88. _Critical Mass: How One Thing Leads to Another_, Philip Ball
 89. _The Clash of Civilizations and the Remaking of World Order_, Samuel P. Huntington
 90. _The Impossible State: North Korea Past and Future_, Victor Cha
 91. _Our Mathematical Universe: My Quest to Discover the Ultimate Nature of Reality_, Max Tegmark
 92. _The Singularity is Near: When Humans Transcend Biology_, Ray Kurzweil
 93. _The Box: How the Shipping Container Made the World Smaller and the World Economy Bigger_, Marc Levinson
 94. _The Case of the Pope: Vatican Accountability for Human Rights Abuse_, Geoffrey Robertson QC
 95. _Proof: The Science of Booze_, Adam Rogers
 96. _Letters to a Young Contrarian_, Christopher Hitchens
 97. _The Tyranny of Experts: Economists, Dictators, and the Forgotten Rights of the Poor_, William Easterly
 98. _Syria: A Recent History_, John McHugo
 99. _Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus_, Ludwig Wittgenstein tr. Bertrand Russell
100. _The End of Power: From Boardrooms to Battlefields and Churches to States, Why Being in Charge Isn't What it Used to Be_, Moisés Naím
101. _The Long Shadow: Family Background, Disadvantaged Urban Youth, and the Transition to Adulthood_, Karl Alexander Doris Entwisle and Linda Olson
102. _A Universe From Nothing: Why There is Something Rather Than Nothing_, Lawrence Krauss
103. _Utopia for Realists: And How We Get There_, Rutger Bregman tr. Elizabeth Manton
104. _Theories of International Politics and Zombies_, Daniel Drezner
105. _Platonism and Antiplatonism in Mathematics_, Mark Balaguer
106. _Condemned to Crisis?_, Ken Ward
107. _The Death of Expertise: The Campaign Against Established Knowledge and Why it Matters_, Tom Nichols
108. _Count Zero_, William Gibson
109. _The Secret of Apollo: Systems Management in American and European Space Programs_, Stephen B. Johnson
110. _Where Wizards Stay Up Late: The Origins of the Internet_, Katie Hafner and Matthew Lyon